TSDK-170 Quivr Height Lock Spec (#16)
Topl/sdk-spec: docs/Modules/Quivr/Prover.md

# Prover

This document describes the functions that the Quivr library within the SDK provides for creating Proofs. 

Various data types are used to describe the parameters and return types of the functions. These types are either the data types provided by [Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3) or will be defined in a separate [protobuf specifications repo](https://github.com/Topl/protobuf-specs/) from which language specific denitions will be generated. To denote a specific type given by Protobuf's `oneof`, the data types in this specification will make use of the following syntax: `ParentType[ChildType]`. For example, `Parent[Child1]` denotes the type `Parent` whose oneof-value is of type `Child1` given the following Protobuf definition:

```
message Parent {
  oneof sealed_value {
    Child1 c1 = 1;
    Child2 c2 = 2;
    ...
  }
}
```

## Bind Proof

### Signature

```
bind(tag: bytes, message: bytes) => bytes 
```

* Parameters
  * `tag`  
  An identifier of the Quivr operation. Each type of Quivr operation has its own unique tag that are pre-defined (see description below).
    * Type: `bytes`  

>     This parameter should only contain a single byte. This specification denotes this type as `bytes` since Protobuf does not have a type for a single byte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This parameter should only contain a single byte. This specification denotes this type as `bytes` since Protobuf does not have a type for a single byte. Values for this parameter are defined in the table below.
```

    * Required: true
  * `message`  

>   Unique bytes from a transaction that will be bound to a proof. It represents the signable bytes of the transaction for which the proof will become apart of.

Reviewer: Somewhere, there needs to be a definition of signable bytes. Separate definitions are needed for Quivr in the general case and also a definition that is for Topl. The definitions will need to make it clear which bytes are included and what their order must be.

Author: I was under the impression that Quivr does not care about what is included in the signable bytes. I agree in general we should have a definition somewhere in the spec that details what the signable bytes of a transaction are, but I do not believe it belongs in Quivr. 

Perhaps this definition belongs either in Overview or NativeTransactor? I think it would make more sense for this definition to be documented as part of any transaction specification tickets.

    * Type: `bytes`
    * Required: true
* Return  

> A transaction binding for a proof. Similar to a "signature".

Reviewer: This is not a signature. Because this is being evaluated in a Quivr context that is not specific to Topl, this hash is needed for the verifier to verify that the proof is for the given transaction.

  * Type: `bytes`

### Errors

The errors that the method/function will produce include:

* `tag` or `message` parameters are not provided.
* `tag` contains more than a single byte.

### Description

Generate a binding for a proof. This binding is a blake2b256 hash of the `message` followed by the `tag`. Each Quivr operation can be identified by its own unique tag. These associations can be found in the table below:

> | **Operation**     | **Tag/Token** |
> |-------------------|---------------|
> | Locked            | 0             |
> | Digest            | 1             |
> | Digital Signature | 2             |
> | Height Range      | -1            |
> | Tick Range        | -2            |
> | Exact Match       | -3            |
> | Less Than         | -4            |
> | Greater Than      | -5            |
> | Equal To          | -6            |
> | Threshold         | 127           |
> | Not               | 126           |
> | And               | 125           |
> | Or                | 124           |

Reviewer: It is usually easier for people to read byte values  as unsigned quantities written as two hex digits like this:
```suggestion
| **Operation**     | **Tag/Token** |
|-------------------|---------------|
| Locked            | 00            |
| Digest            | 01            |
| Digital Signature | 02            |
| Height Range      | FF            |
| Tick Range        | FE            |
| Exact Match       | FD            |
| Less Than         | FC            |
| Greater Than      | FB            |
| Equal To          | FA            |
| Threshold         | 7F            |
| Not               | 7E            |
| And               | 7D            |
| Or                | 7C            |
```

Author: I did not choose the value of the tags, they were given as part of the following [models](https://github.com/Topl/quivr4s/blob/tsdk-178-jaa-2/src/main/scala/co/topl/quivr/package.scala#L112)

![diagram](./assets/Prover_bind.png)

### Tests

The testing procedure and vectors are provided in a [separate page](ProverTests.md#bind-proof-tests).

## Prove Height Range

> ### Signature

Reviewer: I don't think this signature or the accompanying diagram are right. I think it would make more sense like this:
```

                       +---------+
                       |         |
 tag ---------------->-+         |
                       |  bind   +---+
message ------+------>-+         |   |
              |        |         |   |
              |        +---------+   v
              |                      |
              |                +-----+--------+
              |                |              |
              +-------------->-+  proveHeight +----->- Proof[HeightLock]
                               |              |
                               +--------------+
```
